
	Magic Piano is an iOS game that does not necessarily target “musicians.” The player progresses through the game by tapping the appropriate “notes”, which appear as spheres, as they appear on the screen and receives points for accuracy. More songs are unlocked as the player gains more points. For my project, I want to incorporate the same type of “note-moving-across-screen” concept, except instead of losing points for missing a sphere, I want the notes to pause when a note is played incorrectly and wait until it is correct. For my project, while I like the fact that there is a large database of songs the player can play with, I think that I will not implement this feature and have the user download their own songs into a song folder - or perhaps, to save space, I can have a couple pre-loaded songs already in list format so that the program wouldn’t have to go through the trouble of reading audio files. My project is not really a game, so it would only resemble Magic Piano in the fundamental goal of the game.

	The SmartMusic App software allows music students to practice music, either their own or one from the huge database of songs available, and receive feedback on the accuracy of their pitch and tempo. SmartMusic App is primarily utilized by teachers because a report of the student's progress and grade on a particular practice session is automatically sent to the student's music teacher. When practicing, the student has the option to play by himself or along with various tracks corresponding to different sections of the orchestra. As the song progresses, a cursor indicates what note is to be played next; if it is played incorrectly, the note turns red. I like that there is a cursor showing which note to play next, which I will add to my project. However, instead of merely turning red to show an incorrect note, my project will stop the song until the correct note is played. I also like that the user can play along with the track, so I think I will have this option as well, or, at the very least, have an option to hear the song before practicing. I like the grade aspect to it - maybe I can have some way to measure the best practice session, but since that feature is targeting mainly teachers, and my user audience is not restricted to just teachers, I don’t think I want to emphasize  the grade aspect too much.

	The Finale! music composition software is this really professional software that aides in the creation of music. Essentially, the user clicks on the above, below, or on the staff and the intended note will appear. There is an assortment of tool windows that allow for more specific musical notation. The user can set up the composition for a solo piece, an orchestral piece, or any other number of parts with any variation of musical instruments. One helpful feature is the playback button, which allows the user to hear what he has composed and make any adjustments necessary. Although I believe it is difficult to set up, the user can also compose his music by playing on an instrument or singing into a microphone. Overall, I think that Finale! is an overwhelming musical composition tool. There are many features that would only be used in rarer circumstances, or when the piece has already been composed and just needs to be typed down. For instance, my project won’t include the ability to add lyrics or comments to the piece, because I think those features are entirely unnecessary to meet the basic goal of composing music. Also, I don’t like the fact that there are numerous tool windows that help specify the exact type of note to be played. I would rather there be just one tool area that contains the basic note beats the user can click on to add to his piece. I do like the playback option, and I think I will add such a feature on the music composition mode of my project.

	One online product is Noteflight. This is also a music composition website; however, it is significantly more simple than Finale! While Noteflight may be more suitable for beginning composers, one of Noteflight’s big features is the ability to share and make public one’s music in a kind of forum or discussion board environment. Users can copy each other’s music and make whole new arrangements with it. I do like the simplicity of Noteflight’s user interface. There really is only one tool box that holds the most commonly used note types and modifiers. Noteflight also has the playback feature that Finale! has. While I think the sharing ability is really helpful, I don’t think I will add it to my project since it is kind of beyond the scope of what I had in mind for the project.

